# Sentiment-analysis-using-R
This report by Way-Finder Consultancy was ordered by the US State Department as part of their comprehensive analysis of President Biden’s first 100 days in office. This particular report was devised to assess public sentiment regarding President Biden’s performance in the early stages of his presidency. Analysis was conducted using the ‘TwitteR’ package on RStudio and has assessed a combined 3,057 tweets over a span of four weeks. Data was collected on areas that were deemed to be of significant concern to the Biden administration presently and would persist throughout his presidency. Upon collection, the data was analysed using semantic analysis and RStudio functions to extract sentiment. The data was then visualised into a dashboard to support decision-making. The topics and analysis have been outlined below.

The analysis and recommendations made in this report have been shaped by the accumulation of over 3,000 tweets using the ‘twitteR’ package on RStudio. The aggregated data was also visualised to provide a dashboard of information to assist with executive decision-making. Further to this, the report has been structured to provide an analysis of the research findings in a particular area before presenting a series of recommendations that can be adopted by the Biden Administration. The areas in question are; foreign policy sentiment analysis under President Biden, attitudes toward the US Covid-19 response, the positivity and negativity directed toward the Republican and Democratic Parties, an analysis of President Biden’s delivery on campaign promises in addition to an overview on views regarding stimulus cheques. Way-Finder Consultancy based its analysis and recommendations on the methodology outlined below.
